README.markdown, before:

# What is FluentLenium ?

FluentLenium is a framework that helps you to write [Selenium](http://seleniumhq.org/) tests.
FluentLenium provides you a [fluent interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluent_interface) to the [Selenium Web Driver](http://seleniumhq.org/docs/03_webdriver.html).
FluentLenium lets you use the assertion framework you like, either [jUnit assertions](http://www.junit.org/apidocs/org/junit/Assert.html), [Hamcrest](http://code.google.com/p/hamcrest/wiki/Tutorial) 
or [Fest-assert](http://docs.codehaus.org/display/FEST/Fluent+Assertions+Module).


# 5 second example
```java
import org.junit.Test;

import static org.fest.assertions.Assertions.assertThat;

public class BingTest extends FluentTest {
    @Test
    public void title_of_bing_should_contain_search_query_name() {
        goTo("http://www.bing.com");
        fill("#sb_form_q").with("FluentLenium");
        submit("#sb_form_go");
        assertThat(title()).contains("FluentLenium");
    }
}
```

## Maven

To add FluentLenium to your project, just add the following dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml 
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.fluentlenium</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluentlenium-core</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.2</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

By default, FluentLenium provides a jUnit adapter.

If you need the fest-assert dependency to improve the legibility of your test code :

```xml 
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.fluentlenium</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluentlenium-festassert</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.2</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

An adapter has also been built for using FluentLenium with TestNG :

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.fluentlenium</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluentlenium-testng</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.2</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

Just extend `org.fluentlenium.adapter.FluentTestNg` instead of `org.fluentlenium.adapter.FluentTest`.

##Static imports

If you need to do some filtering :

```java
import static org.fluentlenium.core.filter.FilterConstructor.*;
```

### Static import using fest assert
The static assertions to use fest assert are :

```java
import static org.fest.assertions.Assertions.assertThat;
import static org.fest.assertions.fluentlenium.FluentLeniumAssertions.assertThat;
```

### Basic Methods
You can use `url()` , `title()` or `pageSource()` to get the url, the title or the page source of the current page.

###  Selector
#### Default Selector
You can use CSS1, CSS2 and CSS3 selectors with the same restrictions as in Selenium.

If you want to find the list of elements which have :

  - the `id` "title" : `find("#title")`
  - the `class` name "small" : `find(".small")`
  - the `tag` name "input" : `find("input")`

You are free to use most of the CSS3 syntax, which means that
`find("input[class=rightForm]")`
will return the list of all input elements which have the class rightForm

#### Custom filter
But what if you want all the input that have text equal to "Sam" ?
You can use filters to allow that kind of search. For example :

```java
find(".small", withName("foo"))
find(".small", withId("idOne"))
find(".small", withText("This field is mandatory."))
```

You can also write chained filters :
`find(".small", withName("foo"), withId("id1"))` will return all the elements matching the 3 criteria.

You can do more complex string matching on the above filters using the following methods :

  - `contains`
  - `notContains`
  - `startsWith`
  - `notStartsWith`
  - `endsWith`
  - `notEndsWith`

For each of them, you can choose to use a css selector :

```java
find(".small", withName().notContains("name")
find(".small", withId().notStartsWith("id")
find(".small", withText().endsWith("Female"))
```

Or to be more precise, you can use regular expressions :

```java
find(".small", withName().contains(regex("na?me[0-9]*"))
find(".small", withName().notStartsWith(regex("na?me[0-9]*"))
```

Contains, startsWith and endsWith with a regexp pattern look for a subsection of the pattern.

Of course, if you are a regexp jedi, you don't need these!

More will come soon to filter to create a complete search tool (containsWord, able to choose if you want to ignore case ...)


### N-th
If you want the first element that matches your criteria, just use :

```java
findFirst(myCssSelector)
```

or alternatively

```java
find(myCssSelector).first()
```

If you want the element at the given position :

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2)
```

Of course, you can use both position filter and custom filter :

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2, withName("foo"))
```


#### Find on children
You can also chain the find call :
`find(myCssSelector).find("input")` will return all the input elements in the css selector tree.
You can be more specific :

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2, withName("foo")).find("input", withName("bar"))
```

or

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2, withName("foo")).findFirst("input", withName("bar"))
```

## Element
If you need to access to the name, the id, the value, the tagname or the text of an element :

```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).getName()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getId()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getValue()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getTagName()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getText()
```

If you need to access a specific value of an attribute:

```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).getAttribute("myCustomAttribute")
```

You can also access a list of all the names, text, and ids of a list of elements:
```java
find(myCssSelector).getNames()
find(myCssSelector).getIds()
find(myCssSelector).getValues()
find(myCssSelector).getAttributes("myCustomAttribute")
find(myCssSelector).getTexts()
```

If you need to get the underlying html content of an element:
```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).html()
```
To know the dimension of an element (with and height):

```java
Dimension dimension = findFirst(myCssSelector).getSize()
```

You can also check if the element is displayed, enabled or selected:
```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).isDisplayed()
findFirst(myCssSelector).isEnabled()
findFirst(myCssSelector).isSelected()
```

## Form Actions
Clicking, filling, submitting and cleaning an element or list of elements is simple and intuitive.

### Fill
`fill("input").with("bar")` or `find("input").text("bar")` will fill all the input elements with bar. 
If you want for example to exclude checkboxes, you can use the css filtering like `fill("input:not([type='checkbox'])").with("tomato")`, 
you can also use the filtering provided by FluentLenium `fill("input", with("type", notContains("checkbox"))).with("tomato")`


`fill("input").with("myLogin","myPassword")` will fill the first element of the input selection with myLogin, the second with myPassword. 
If there are more input elements found, the last value (myPassword) will be repeated for each subsequent element.

Don't forget, only visible fields will be modified. It simulates a real person using a browser!

### Click
```java
click("#create-button")
```

This will click on all the visible fields returned by the search.

### Clear
```java
clear("#firstname")
```

This will clear all the visible fields returned by the search.

### Submit
```java
submit("#account")
```

This will submit all the visible fields returned by the search.

### Double click
```java
find("#create-button").doubleClick()
```

## Page Object pattern
Selenium tests can easily become a mess.  To avoid this, you can use the [Page Object Pattern](http://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/PageObjects).
Page Object Pattern will enclose all the plumbing relating to how pages interact with each other and how the user
interacts with the page, which makes tests a lot easier to read and to maintain.

Try to construct your Page thinking that it is better if you offer services from your page rather than just the internals of the page.
A Page Object can model the whole page or just a part of it.

To construct a Page, extend [org.fluentlenium.core.FluentPage](https://github.com/FluentLenium/FluentLenium/blob/master/fluentlenium-core/src/main/java/org/fluentlenium/core/FluentPage.java).
In most cases, you have to define the url of the page by overriding the `getUrl` method.
By doing this, you can then use the `goTo(myPage)` method in your test code.

It may be necessary to ensure that you are on the right page, not just at the url returned by `getUrl` [accessible in your test via the void url() method].
To do this, override the `isAt` method to run all the assertions necessary in order to ensure that you are on the right page.
For example, if I choose that the title will be sufficient to know if I'm on the right page:

```java
@Override
public void isAt() {
    assertThat(title()).contains("Selenium");
}
```

Create your own methods to easily fill out forms, go to another or whatever else may be needed in your test.

For example:

```java
public class LoginPage extends FluentPage {
    public String getUrl() {
        return "myCustomUrl";
    }
    public void isAt() {
        assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("MyTitle");
    }
    public void fillAndSubmitForm(String... paramsOrdered) {
        fill("input").with(paramsOrdered);
        click("#create-button");
    }
}
```

And the corresponding test:

```java
public void checkLoginFailed() {
	goTo(loginPage);
	loginPage.fillAndSubmitLoginForm("login", "wrongPass");
	loginPage.isAt();
}
```

Or if you have the [Fest-assert](http://docs.codehaus.org/display/FEST/Fluent+Assertions+Module) module (just static import org.fest.assertions.fluentlenium.FluentLeniumAssertions.assertThat)

```java
public void checkLoginFailed() {
	goTo(loginPage);
	loginPage.fillAndSubmitLoginForm("login","wrongPass");
	assertThat(find(".error")).hasSize(1);
	assertThat(loginPage).isAt();
}
```

###Page usage
You can use the annotation `@Page` to construct your page easily.

For example:

```java
public class AnnotationInitialization extends FluentTest {
    public WebDriver webDriver = new HtmlUnitDriver();

    @Page
    public TestPage page;


    @Test
    public void test_no_exception() {
        goTo(page);
        //put your assertions here
    }


    @Override
    public WebDriver getDefaultDriver() {
        return webDriver;
    }

}
```

You can also use the factory method `createPage`:

```java
public class BeforeInitialization extends FluentTest {
	public WebDriver webDriver = new HtmlUnitDriver();
	public TestPage page;
	@Before
	public void beforeTest() {
		page = createPage(TestPage.class);
	}
	@Test
	public void test_no_exception() {
		page.go();
	}
	@Override
	public WebDriver getDefaultDriver() {
		return webDriver;
	}
}
```

Within a page, all FluentWebElement fields are automatically searched for by name or id. For example, if you declare a FluentWebElement named `createButton`, 
it will search the page for an element where `id` is `createButton` or name is `createButton`. 
All elements are proxified which means that the search is not done until you try to access the element.

```java
public class LoginPage extends FluentPage {
   FluentWebElement createButton;
   public String getUrl() {
       return "myCustomUrl";
   }
   public void isAt() {
       assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("MyTitle");
   }
   public void fillAndSubmitForm(String... paramsOrdered) {
       fill("input").with(paramsOrdered);
       createButton.click();
   }
}
```
If you need to wait for an element to be present, especially when waiting for an ajax call to complete, you can use the @AjaxElement annotation on the fields :

```java
public class LoginPage extends FluentPage {
   @AjaxElement
   FluentWebElement myAjaxElement;
}
```
You can set the timeout in seconds for the page to throw an error if not found with @AjaxElemet(timeountOnSeconds=3) if you want to wait 3 seconds.
By default, the timeout is set to one second.


## Wait for an Ajax Call

There are multiple ways to make your driver wait for the result of an asynchronous call.
FluentLenium provides a rich and fluent API in order to help you to handle AJAX calls.
If you want to wait for at most 5 seconds until the number of elements corresponding to the until criteria (here the class small) has the requested size:


```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").hasSize(3);
```
The default wait is 500 ms.

Instead of hasSize, you can also use `hasText("myTextValue")`, `hasId("myId")`, `hasName("myName")`, `containsText("myName")`.
The `isPresent()` assertion is going to check if there is at most one element on the page corresponding to the filter.

If you need to be more precise, you can also use filters in the search:

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").withText("myText").hasSize(3);
```
You can also use after hasSize() : 'greaterThan(int)', 'lessThan(int)', 'lessThanOrEqualTo(int)', 'greaterThanOrEqualTo(int)' , 'equalTo(int)', 'notEqualTo(int)'

You can also use matchers:

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").withText().startsWith("start").isPresent();
```
     
Just use `startsWith`, `notStartsWith`, `endsWith`, `notEndsWith`, `contains`, `notContains`, `equalTo`.

If you need to filter on a custom attribute name, this syntax will help :

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").with("myAttribute").startsWith("myValue").isPresent();
```

You can also check if the page is loaded using
```java
await().atMost(1, NANOSECONDS).untilPage().isLoaded();
```

If you want to wait until the page you want is the page that you are at, you can use :
```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).untilPage(myPage).isAt();
```
This methods actually calls myPage.isAt(). If the isAt() method of the myPage object does not throw any exception during the time specified, then the framework will consider that the page is the one wanted.

### Polling Every
You can also define the polling frequency, for example, if you want to poll every 5 seconds :
 ```java
await().pollingEvery(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").with("myAttribute").startsWith("myValue").isPresent();
```
The default value is 500ms.

You can also chain filter in the asynchronous API:

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").with("myAttribute").startsWith("myValue").with("a second attribute").equalTo("my@ndValue").isPresent();
```
## Alternative Syntax

If you are more familiar with the [JQuery](http://jquery.com/) syntax, you can use the familiar `$` method:

```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
$("#firstName").text("toto");
$("#create-button").click();
assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("Hello toto");
```

Both syntaxes are equivalent. `$` is simply an alias for the `find` method.


## Execute javascript
If you need to execute some javascript, just call `executeScript` with your script as parameter.
For example, if you have a javascript method called change and you want to call it just add this in your test:

```java
executeScript("change();");
```

## Taking Snapshots
You can take a snaphost of the browser
```java
driver.takeScreenShot();
```
The file will be named using the current timestamp.
You can of course specify a path and a name using :
```java
driver.takeScreenShot(pathAndfileName);
```

## Isolate Tests
If you want to test concurrency or if you need for any reason to not use the mechanism of extension of FluentLenium, you can also, instead of extending FluentTest, instantiate your fluent test object directly.
```java
= new IsolatedTest().goTo(DEFAULT_URL).
    await().atMost(1, SECONDS).until(".small").with("name").equalTo("name").isPresent().
    find("input").first().isEnabled();```
```



## Customize FluentLenium

### Driver
If you need to change your driver, just override the `getDefaultDriver` method in your test. You can use every driver.

### TimeOut
Just override `getDefaultWait` method in your test.

## FluentLenium and other frameworks
### jUnit
FluentLenium uses jUnit by default. You can use test using [jUnit](http://www.junit.org) assertions, but can of course use others frameworks such as [Fluent-assert](http://code.google.com/p/fluent-assert/) or [Hamcrest](http://code.google.com/p/hamcrest/).

```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
fill("#firstName").with("toto");
click("#create-button");
assertEqual("Hello toto",title());
```

### Fest-Assert
```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
fill("#firstName").with("toto");
click("#create-button");
assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("Hello toto");
assertThat(find(myCssSelector)).hasText("present text");
assertThat(find(myCssSelector)).hasNotText("not present text");
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto1)).hasSize(7);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto2)).hasSize().lessThan(5);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto2)).hasSize().lessThanOrEqualTo(5);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto3)).hasSize().greaterThan(2);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto3)).hasSize().greaterThanOrEqualTo(2);
```

### Hamcrest
```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
fill("#firstName").with("toto");
click("#create-button");
assertThat(title(),equalTo("Hello toto"));
```

### Built by CloudBees
<img src='http://web-static-cloudfront.s3.amazonaws.com/images/badges/BuiltOnDEV.png'/>

Commit message:

add direct method from list to access the first elem on the list

README.markdown, after:

# What is FluentLenium ?

FluentLenium is a framework that helps you to write [Selenium](http://seleniumhq.org/) tests.
FluentLenium provides you a [fluent interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluent_interface) to the [Selenium Web Driver](http://seleniumhq.org/docs/03_webdriver.html).
FluentLenium lets you use the assertion framework you like, either [jUnit assertions](http://www.junit.org/apidocs/org/junit/Assert.html), [Hamcrest](http://code.google.com/p/hamcrest/wiki/Tutorial) 
or [Fest-assert](http://docs.codehaus.org/display/FEST/Fluent+Assertions+Module).


# 5 second example
```java
import org.junit.Test;

import static org.fest.assertions.Assertions.assertThat;

public class BingTest extends FluentTest {
    @Test
    public void title_of_bing_should_contain_search_query_name() {
        goTo("http://www.bing.com");
        fill("#sb_form_q").with("FluentLenium");
        submit("#sb_form_go");
        assertThat(title()).contains("FluentLenium");
    }
}
```

## Maven

To add FluentLenium to your project, just add the following dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml 
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.fluentlenium</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluentlenium-core</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.2</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

By default, FluentLenium provides a jUnit adapter.

If you need the fest-assert dependency to improve the legibility of your test code :

```xml 
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.fluentlenium</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluentlenium-festassert</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.2</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

An adapter has also been built for using FluentLenium with TestNG :

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.fluentlenium</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluentlenium-testng</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.2</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

Just extend `org.fluentlenium.adapter.FluentTestNg` instead of `org.fluentlenium.adapter.FluentTest`.

##Static imports

If you need to do some filtering :

```java
import static org.fluentlenium.core.filter.FilterConstructor.*;
```

### Static import using fest assert
The static assertions to use fest assert are :

```java
import static org.fest.assertions.Assertions.assertThat;
import static org.fest.assertions.fluentlenium.FluentLeniumAssertions.assertThat;
```

### Basic Methods
You can use `url()` , `title()` or `pageSource()` to get the url, the title or the page source of the current page.

###  Selector
#### Default Selector
You can use CSS1, CSS2 and CSS3 selectors with the same restrictions as in Selenium.

If you want to find the list of elements which have :

  - the `id` "title" : `find("#title")`
  - the `class` name "small" : `find(".small")`
  - the `tag` name "input" : `find("input")`

You are free to use most of the CSS3 syntax, which means that
`find("input[class=rightForm]")`
will return the list of all input elements which have the class rightForm

#### Custom filter
But what if you want all the input that have text equal to "Sam" ?
You can use filters to allow that kind of search. For example :

```java
find(".small", withName("foo"))
find(".small", withId("idOne"))
find(".small", withText("This field is mandatory."))
```

You can also write chained filters :
`find(".small", withName("foo"), withId("id1"))` will return all the elements matching the 3 criteria.

You can do more complex string matching on the above filters using the following methods :

  - `contains`
  - `notContains`
  - `startsWith`
  - `notStartsWith`
  - `endsWith`
  - `notEndsWith`

For each of them, you can choose to use a css selector :

```java
find(".small", withName().notContains("name")
find(".small", withId().notStartsWith("id")
find(".small", withText().endsWith("Female"))
```

Or to be more precise, you can use regular expressions :

```java
find(".small", withName().contains(regex("na?me[0-9]*"))
find(".small", withName().notStartsWith(regex("na?me[0-9]*"))
```

Contains, startsWith and endsWith with a regexp pattern look for a subsection of the pattern.

Of course, if you are a regexp jedi, you don't need these!

More will come soon to filter to create a complete search tool (containsWord, able to choose if you want to ignore case ...)


### N-th
If you want the first element that matches your criteria, just use :

```java
findFirst(myCssSelector)
```

or alternatively

```java
find(myCssSelector).first()
```

If you want the element at the given position :

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2)
```

Of course, you can use both position filter and custom filter :

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2, withName("foo"))
```


#### Find on children
You can also chain the find call :
`find(myCssSelector).find("input")` will return all the input elements in the css selector tree.
You can be more specific :

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2, withName("foo")).find("input", withName("bar"))
```

or

```java
find(myCssSelector, 2, withName("foo")).findFirst("input", withName("bar"))
```

## Element
If you need to access to the name, the id, the value, the tagname or the text of an element :

```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).getName()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getId()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getValue()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getTagName()
findFirst(myCssSelector).getText()
```

If you need to access a specific value of an attribute:

```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).getAttribute("myCustomAttribute")
```

You can also access a list of all the names, text, and ids of a list of elements:
```java
find(myCssSelector).getNames()
find(myCssSelector).getIds()
find(myCssSelector).getValues()
find(myCssSelector).getAttributes("myCustomAttribute")
find(myCssSelector).getTexts()
```

If you want to know the name, the id, the value, the text or the value of an attribute of the first element on the list
find(myCssSelector).getName()
find(myCssSelector).getId()
find(myCssSelector).getValue()
find(myCssSelector).getAttribute("myCustomAttribute")
find(myCssSelector).getText()
```

If you need to get the underlying html content of an element:
```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).html()
```
To know the dimension of an element (with and height):

```java
Dimension dimension = findFirst(myCssSelector).getSize()
```

You can also check if the element is displayed, enabled or selected:
```java
findFirst(myCssSelector).isDisplayed()
findFirst(myCssSelector).isEnabled()
findFirst(myCssSelector).isSelected()
```

## Form Actions
Clicking, filling, submitting and cleaning an element or list of elements is simple and intuitive.

### Fill
`fill("input").with("bar")` or `find("input").text("bar")` will fill all the input elements with bar. 
If you want for example to exclude checkboxes, you can use the css filtering like `fill("input:not([type='checkbox'])").with("tomato")`, 
you can also use the filtering provided by FluentLenium `fill("input", with("type", notContains("checkbox"))).with("tomato")`


`fill("input").with("myLogin","myPassword")` will fill the first element of the input selection with myLogin, the second with myPassword. 
If there are more input elements found, the last value (myPassword) will be repeated for each subsequent element.

Don't forget, only visible fields will be modified. It simulates a real person using a browser!

### Click
```java
click("#create-button")
```

This will click on all the visible fields returned by the search.

### Clear
```java
clear("#firstname")
```

This will clear all the visible fields returned by the search.

### Submit
```java
submit("#account")
```

This will submit all the visible fields returned by the search.

### Double click
```java
find("#create-button").doubleClick()
```

## Page Object pattern
Selenium tests can easily become a mess.  To avoid this, you can use the [Page Object Pattern](http://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/PageObjects).
Page Object Pattern will enclose all the plumbing relating to how pages interact with each other and how the user
interacts with the page, which makes tests a lot easier to read and to maintain.

Try to construct your Page thinking that it is better if you offer services from your page rather than just the internals of the page.
A Page Object can model the whole page or just a part of it.

To construct a Page, extend [org.fluentlenium.core.FluentPage](https://github.com/FluentLenium/FluentLenium/blob/master/fluentlenium-core/src/main/java/org/fluentlenium/core/FluentPage.java).
In most cases, you have to define the url of the page by overriding the `getUrl` method.
By doing this, you can then use the `goTo(myPage)` method in your test code.

It may be necessary to ensure that you are on the right page, not just at the url returned by `getUrl` [accessible in your test via the void url() method].
To do this, override the `isAt` method to run all the assertions necessary in order to ensure that you are on the right page.
For example, if I choose that the title will be sufficient to know if I'm on the right page:

```java
@Override
public void isAt() {
    assertThat(title()).contains("Selenium");
}
```

Create your own methods to easily fill out forms, go to another or whatever else may be needed in your test.

For example:

```java
public class LoginPage extends FluentPage {
    public String getUrl() {
        return "myCustomUrl";
    }
    public void isAt() {
        assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("MyTitle");
    }
    public void fillAndSubmitForm(String... paramsOrdered) {
        fill("input").with(paramsOrdered);
        click("#create-button");
    }
}
```

And the corresponding test:

```java
public void checkLoginFailed() {
	goTo(loginPage);
	loginPage.fillAndSubmitLoginForm("login", "wrongPass");
	loginPage.isAt();
}
```

Or if you have the [Fest-assert](http://docs.codehaus.org/display/FEST/Fluent+Assertions+Module) module (just static import org.fest.assertions.fluentlenium.FluentLeniumAssertions.assertThat)

```java
public void checkLoginFailed() {
	goTo(loginPage);
	loginPage.fillAndSubmitLoginForm("login","wrongPass");
	assertThat(find(".error")).hasSize(1);
	assertThat(loginPage).isAt();
}
```

###Page usage
You can use the annotation `@Page` to construct your page easily.

For example:

```java
public class AnnotationInitialization extends FluentTest {
    public WebDriver webDriver = new HtmlUnitDriver();

    @Page
    public TestPage page;


    @Test
    public void test_no_exception() {
        goTo(page);
        //put your assertions here
    }


    @Override
    public WebDriver getDefaultDriver() {
        return webDriver;
    }

}
```

You can also use the factory method `createPage`:

```java
public class BeforeInitialization extends FluentTest {
	public WebDriver webDriver = new HtmlUnitDriver();
	public TestPage page;
	@Before
	public void beforeTest() {
		page = createPage(TestPage.class);
	}
	@Test
	public void test_no_exception() {
		page.go();
	}
	@Override
	public WebDriver getDefaultDriver() {
		return webDriver;
	}
}
```

Within a page, all FluentWebElement fields are automatically searched for by name or id. For example, if you declare a FluentWebElement named `createButton`, 
it will search the page for an element where `id` is `createButton` or name is `createButton`. 
All elements are proxified which means that the search is not done until you try to access the element.

```java
public class LoginPage extends FluentPage {
   FluentWebElement createButton;
   public String getUrl() {
       return "myCustomUrl";
   }
   public void isAt() {
       assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("MyTitle");
   }
   public void fillAndSubmitForm(String... paramsOrdered) {
       fill("input").with(paramsOrdered);
       createButton.click();
   }
}
```
If you need to wait for an element to be present, especially when waiting for an ajax call to complete, you can use the @AjaxElement annotation on the fields :

```java
public class LoginPage extends FluentPage {
   @AjaxElement
   FluentWebElement myAjaxElement;
}
```
You can set the timeout in seconds for the page to throw an error if not found with @AjaxElemet(timeountOnSeconds=3) if you want to wait 3 seconds.
By default, the timeout is set to one second.


## Wait for an Ajax Call

There are multiple ways to make your driver wait for the result of an asynchronous call.
FluentLenium provides a rich and fluent API in order to help you to handle AJAX calls.
If you want to wait for at most 5 seconds until the number of elements corresponding to the until criteria (here the class small) has the requested size:


```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").hasSize(3);
```
The default wait is 500 ms.

Instead of hasSize, you can also use `hasText("myTextValue")`, `hasId("myId")`, `hasName("myName")`, `containsText("myName")`.
The `isPresent()` assertion is going to check if there is at most one element on the page corresponding to the filter.

If you need to be more precise, you can also use filters in the search:

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").withText("myText").hasSize(3);
```
You can also use after hasSize() : 'greaterThan(int)', 'lessThan(int)', 'lessThanOrEqualTo(int)', 'greaterThanOrEqualTo(int)' , 'equalTo(int)', 'notEqualTo(int)'

You can also use matchers:

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").withText().startsWith("start").isPresent();
```
     
Just use `startsWith`, `notStartsWith`, `endsWith`, `notEndsWith`, `contains`, `notContains`, `equalTo`.

If you need to filter on a custom attribute name, this syntax will help :

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").with("myAttribute").startsWith("myValue").isPresent();
```

You can also check if the page is loaded using
```java
await().atMost(1, NANOSECONDS).untilPage().isLoaded();
```

If you want to wait until the page you want is the page that you are at, you can use :
```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).untilPage(myPage).isAt();
```
This methods actually calls myPage.isAt(). If the isAt() method of the myPage object does not throw any exception during the time specified, then the framework will consider that the page is the one wanted.

### Polling Every
You can also define the polling frequency, for example, if you want to poll every 5 seconds :
 ```java
await().pollingEvery(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").with("myAttribute").startsWith("myValue").isPresent();
```
The default value is 500ms.

You can also chain filter in the asynchronous API:

```java
await().atMost(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS).until(".small").with("myAttribute").startsWith("myValue").with("a second attribute").equalTo("my@ndValue").isPresent();
```
## Alternative Syntax

If you are more familiar with the [JQuery](http://jquery.com/) syntax, you can use the familiar `$` method:

```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
$("#firstName").text("toto");
$("#create-button").click();
assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("Hello toto");
```

Both syntaxes are equivalent. `$` is simply an alias for the `find` method.


## Execute javascript
If you need to execute some javascript, just call `executeScript` with your script as parameter.
For example, if you have a javascript method called change and you want to call it just add this in your test:

```java
executeScript("change();");
```

## Taking Snapshots
You can take a snaphost of the browser
```java
driver.takeScreenShot();
```
The file will be named using the current timestamp.
You can of course specify a path and a name using :
```java
driver.takeScreenShot(pathAndfileName);
```

## Isolate Tests
If you want to test concurrency or if you need for any reason to not use the mechanism of extension of FluentLenium, you can also, instead of extending FluentTest, instantiate your fluent test object directly.
```java
= new IsolatedTest().goTo(DEFAULT_URL).
    await().atMost(1, SECONDS).until(".small").with("name").equalTo("name").isPresent().
    find("input").first().isEnabled();```
```



## Customize FluentLenium

### Driver
If you need to change your driver, just override the `getDefaultDriver` method in your test. You can use every driver.

### TimeOut
Just override `getDefaultWait` method in your test.

## FluentLenium and other frameworks
### jUnit
FluentLenium uses jUnit by default. You can use test using [jUnit](http://www.junit.org) assertions, but can of course use others frameworks such as [Fluent-assert](http://code.google.com/p/fluent-assert/) or [Hamcrest](http://code.google.com/p/hamcrest/).

```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
fill("#firstName").with("toto");
click("#create-button");
assertEqual("Hello toto",title());
```

### Fest-Assert
```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
fill("#firstName").with("toto");
click("#create-button");
assertThat(title()).isEqualTo("Hello toto");
assertThat(find(myCssSelector)).hasText("present text");
assertThat(find(myCssSelector)).hasNotText("not present text");
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto1)).hasSize(7);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto2)).hasSize().lessThan(5);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto2)).hasSize().lessThanOrEqualTo(5);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto3)).hasSize().greaterThan(2);
assertThat(find(myCssSelecto3)).hasSize().greaterThanOrEqualTo(2);
```

### Hamcrest
```java
goTo("http://mywebpage/");
fill("#firstName").with("toto");
click("#create-button");
assertThat(title(),equalTo("Hello toto"));
```

### Built by CloudBees
<img src='http://web-static-cloudfront.s3.amazonaws.com/images/badges/BuiltOnDEV.png'/>
