docs/html_included_pages/whats-fluentlenium.md, before:

FluentLenium is a React ready website automation framework which extends Selenium to write readable, reusable, reliable and resilient UI functional tests. It's written and maintained by people who are automating browser-based tests on a daily basis.

FluentLenium provides a Java [fluent interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluent_interface) to
[Selenium](http://www.seleniumhq.org/), and brings some magic to avoid common issues faced by Selenium users.

FluentLenium is shipped with adapters for [JUnit4](https://junit.org/junit4/), [JUnit5](https://junit.org/junit5/), [TestNG](http://testng.org/doc/index.html), [Spock](http://spockframework.org/) and [Cucumber](https://cucumber.io), but it can also be used standalone.

FluentLenium best integrates with [AssertJ](http://joel-costigliola.github.io/assertj/), but you can also choose to use
the assertion framework you want.

### Contact us
If you have any comment, remark or issue, please open an issue on
[FluentLenium Issue Tracker](https://github.com/FluentLenium/FluentLenium/issues)

Commit message:

Javadoc release preparation, updated README, docs and changed version in Javadoc from 4.2.3-SNAPSHOT to 4.2.2

docs/html_included_pages/whats-fluentlenium.md, after:

FluentLenium is a React ready website automation framework which extends Selenium to write readable, reusable, reliable and resilient UI functional tests. It's written and maintained by people who are automating browser-based tests on a daily basis.

FluentLenium provides a Java [fluent interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluent_interface) to
[Selenium](http://www.seleniumhq.org/), and brings some magic to avoid common issues faced by Selenium users.

FluentLenium is shipped with adapters for [JUnit4](https://junit.org/junit4/), [JUnit5](https://junit.org/junit5/), [TestNG](http://testng.org/doc/index.html), [Spock](http://spockframework.org/) and [Cucumber](https://cucumber.io), but it can also be used standalone.

FluentLenium best integrates with [AssertJ](http://joel-costigliola.github.io/assertj/), but you can also choose to use
the assertion framework you want.

### Javadoc
Complete FluentLenium Javadoc is available on [fluentlenium.com/javadoc](https://fluentlenium.com/javadoc)

### Contact us
If you have any comment, remark or issue, please open an issue on
[FluentLenium Issue Tracker](https://github.com/FluentLenium/FluentLenium/issues)
